# Pandas DataFrames and Jupyter Notebook Homework Solution: The analysis of PyCity Schools' performance on Math and Reading standardized tests

## Background

The PyCity Schools district's board and Mayor were interested in understanding the performance of the district's schools on the Math and Reading Standardized tests to enable them to make strategic decisions regarding future school budgets and priorities.  Access to every student's math and reading scores, as well as various information about the schools they attend, was supplied to the district's Chief Data Scientist for analysis.

### Before reading the homework csv data files and coding in Python

1. I created a new repository in GitHub for this project called `pandas-challenge`. 

2. Inside the new repository:
    * I cloned the new repository to my computer.
    * Inside my local Git repository, I created a folder for the assignment and named it PyCitySchools.
    * I added the following content within PyCitySchools:
      -	The Jupyter Notebook file called PyCitySchools_starter.ipynb, which included the assignment's starter script and expected analysis output.  This is the Jupyter Notebook file that I used to create and run the code for analysis.  I printed several intermediate analysis tables, that were not included in the final PyCitySchools_final.ipynb.  These intermediate analysis tables were used to ensure that the code was working correctly and gerenated the anticipated output.
      -	A Resources folder that contained 2 csv files that I used; schools_complete.csv and students_complete.csv, representing school level and student level data, respectively. These two datasets were merged on School Name to create a dateset that combined the information about the schools to each student.  The merged dataset is at the Student ID level (unique Student ID row).
      -	An analysis summary pdf file, PyCity Schools Performance Analysis.pdf, that contained an executive summary and insights that can be presented to the disctrict's board and the Mayor.
    * I pushed these changes back to GitHub. 

### Files including data used for analysis, and the analysis report/presentation file

* PyCitySchools/Resources/schools_complete.csv - information about each of the 15 schools.  
* PyCitySchools/Resources/students_complete.csv - information about each of the 39,170 students.  
* PyCitySchools/PyCity Schools Performance Analysis.pdf - final analysis presentation slides.

### Jupyter Notebook files,*.ipynb

* PyCitySchools_starter.ipynb - starter script and review of desired format for the assignment's output.  
* PyCitySchools_final.ipynb - final script, removing intermediate output tables, that generated the final analysis output for the pandas-challenge assignment 

## Analysis Steps
In the PyCitySchools assignment we were tasked with using Pandas and Jupyter Notebook to create a report that included the following disctrict schools' standardized testing performance analyses:
1. Disctrict level summary report, representing a high-level snapshot of the district's key metrics:
	* Total number of unique schools
	* Total students
	* Total budget
	* Average math score
	* Average reading score
	* % passing math (the percentage of students who passed math)
	* % passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading)
	* % overall passing (the percentage of students who passed math AND reading)

2. School level summary report, representing the following key metrics about each school:
  * School name
  * School type
  * Total students
  * Total school budget
  * Per student budget
  * Average math score
  * Average reading score
  * % passing math (the percentage of students who passed math)
  * % passing reading (the percentage of students who passed reading)
  * % overall passing (the percentage of students who passed math AND reading)

3. School level summary reports comparing the top 5 performing schools to the bottom 5 performing schools.  The performance ranking was based on the percentage of students who passed both the Math and Reading standardized tests (% Overall Passing).

4. School level summary reports comparing the schools' average Math test scores and average Reading test scores by grade levels.

5. School level summary report comparing the schools' performances by 4 per-student budget spending categories.

6. School level summary report comparing the schools' performances by 3 school size categories.

7. School level summary report comparing the schools' performances by 2 school type categories (Charter vs. District schools).

## References

* Data for the 2 datasets were generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and are intended for educational purposes only.
